# Hardware design of PV-Tile prototype

Our self-powered interface consists of an array of 4x4 OPV tiles overlaid on a 4 x 4 array of ultra –low power polymer network liquid crystal displays (LS013B7DH03 by Sharp). The interface remains in energy harvesting mode when no movement detected by the ultra-low power PIR module. In this mode the microcontroller is in low power mode, where its current consumption is less than 1 mA @ 3.3 V. The output from the PIR module is connected to an interrupt enabled input pin on the microcontroller (MSP-EXP430F5529LP). As soon as the PIR is activated by movement (e.g. a human hand in close proximity to the OPV array), the microcontroller switches to gesture sensing mode. In this mode photocurrent generated by the OPV tiles is sent, via individual analog switches and two 8:1 analog multiplexers, to a resistor which converts the photocurrent to a voltage drop that can be measured by the microcontroller’s on-chip analog-to-digital converter. Voltage variations are processed by custom algorithms on the microcontroller. Text and images written to relevant displays. In order to write to individual displays, a shift register converts serial data from one of the microcontroller’s digital outputs to parallel data that is used to enable one or more displays for writing. The displays are driven by a separate display driver module (BOOSTXL-SHARP128). A nano-power 1 Hz oscillator is used to switch the displays’ common electrodes in order to prevent charge accumulation and subsequent image ‘burn in’. Below you can download the hardware designs of PV-tiles.